[Music]
I was raised in Seoul Korea and I moved
to New York City in 1999 to attend
college I was pre-med at the time and I
thought I'd become a surgeon because I
was interested in anatomy and dissecting
animals really piqued my curiosity and
at the same time I fell in love with New
York City and it started to realize that
I could look at the whole city as a
living organism
I wanted to dissect it and look into its
unseen layers and the way to do it for
me was through artistic means so
eventually I decided to pursue an MFA
instead of an MD and in grad school I
became interested in creatures that
dwell in the hidden corners of the city
in New York City rats are part of
commuters daily lives and most people
ignore them or are frightened of them
but I took a liking to them because they
dwell on the fringes of society and even
though they're used in labs to promote
human lives they're also considered as
pests I also started looking around in
the city and tried to photograph them
one day in the subway I was snapping
pictures of the tracks hoping to catch a
rat or two and a man came up to me and
said you can't take photographs here the
MTA will confiscate your camera I was
quite shocked by that and that's myself
well okay then I'll follow the rats then
I started going into the tunnels which
made me realize that there's a whole new
dimension to the city that I never saw
before and most people don't get to see
around the same time I met like-minded
individuals who call themselves urban
explorers adventurers blenkers guerilla
historians etc I was welcomed into this
loose internet-based network of people
who
regularly explore urban ruins such as
abandoned subway stations tunnel sewers
aqueducts factories hospitals shipyards
and so on when I took photographs in
these locations I felt there was
something missing in the pictures simply
documenting these soon-to-be demolished
structures wasn't enough for me so I
wanted to create a fictional character
or an animal that dwells in these
underground spaces and the simplest way
to do it at the time was to model myself
and I decided against clothing because
they wanted the figure to be without any
cultural implications or time-specific
elements I wanted a simple way to
represent a living body inhabiting these
decaying derelict spaces this was taken
in the Revere sugar factory in Red Hook
Brooklyn it's now an empty six acre lot
waiting for a shopping mall right across
from the new IKEA I was very fond of
this space because it's the first
massive industrial complex I found on my
own that is abandoned and I first went
and I was scared because I heard dogs
barking and I thought they were guard
dogs but they happened to be wild dogs
living there and I was right by the
water so there were swans and ducks
swimming around and trees growing
everywhere and beasts nesting in the
sugar barrels the nature had really
reclaimed the whole complex and in a way
I wanted the human figure in the picture
to become a part of that nature when I
got comfortable in the space it also
felt like a big playground I would climb
up the tanks and hop across exposed
beams
as if I went back in time and became a
child again this was taken in the old
Croton Aqueduct which supplied fresh
water to New York City for the first
time the construction began in eighteen
seven and lasted about five years and it
got abandoned when the new Croton
Aqueduct opened in 1890 when you go into
spaces like this you're directly
accessing the past because they sit
untouched for decades I love feeling the
aura of a space that has so much history
instead of looking at reproductions of
it at home you're actually feeling the
hand laid bricks and shimmying up and
down narrow cracks and getting wet and
muddy and walking in a dark tunnel with
a flashlight this is a tunnel underneath
the Riverside Park it was built in the
1930s by Robert Moses the murals were
done by a graffiti artist to commemorate
the hundreds of homeless people that got
relocated from the tunnel in 1991 when
the tunnel reopened for trains walking
in this tunnel is very peaceful there is
nobody around you and you know you hear
the kids playing in the park above you
completely unaware of what's underneath
when I was going out a lot to these
places I felt a lot of anxiety and
isolation because I was in a solitary
phase in my life and I decided to title
my series naked city spleen which
references Charles Baudelaire naked city
is the nickname for New York and spleen
and bodies melancholia and inertia that
come from feeling alienated in an urban
environment this is the same tunnel you
see the sunbeams coming through the
ventilation ducts and the train
approaching this is a tunnel it's
abandoned in Hell's Kitchen I was there
alone setting up and a homeless man
approached I was basically intruding his
living space I was really frightened at
first but I calmly explained to him that
I was working on an art project and he
didn't seem to mind so I went ahead and
put my camera on self-timer and
ran back and forth and when I was done
he actually offered me his shirt to wipe
off my feet and kindly walk me out it
must have been a very unusual day for
him one thing that struck me after this
incident was that a space like that
holds so many deleted memories of a city
the homeless man to me really
represented an element of the
unconscious of the city he told me that
he was abused above ground and was once
in Rikers Island and at last he found
peace and quiet in that space the tunnel
was once built for the prosperity of the
city but it's now a sanctuary for
outcasts who are completely forgotten in
the average urban dwellers everyday life
this is underneath my alma mater
Columbia University the tunnels are
famous for having been used during the
development of the Manhattan Project
this particular tunnel is interesting
because it shows the original
foundations of Bloomingdale insane
asylum which was demolished in 1890 when
Columbia moved in this is the New York
City farm colony which was a poorhouse
in Staten Island from 1890s to 1930s
most of my photos are set in places that
have been abandoned for decades but this
is an exception this children's hospital
was closed in 1997 it's located in New
York and when I was there three years
ago the windows were broken and Walt
repealing but everything was left there
as it was you see the autopsy table
morgue trays and x-ray machines and even
used two utensils which you see on the
autopsy table after exploring recently
abandoned buildings
I felt that everything could fall into
ruins very fast your home your office a
shopping mall a church any man-made
structures around you I was reminded of
how fragile our sense of security is and
how vulnerable people truly are I love
to travel and Berlin has become one of
my favorite cities it's full of history
and also full of
underground bunkers and ruins from the
war
this was taken under a homeless asylum
built in 1885 to house 1,100 people I
saw the structure while I was on the
train and I got off at the next station
and met people there that gave me access
to their catacomb like basement which
was used for ammunition storage during
the war and also at some point to hide
groups of Jewish refugees this is the
actual catacombs in Paris I explore
there extensively in the off-limits
areas and fell in love right away there
are more than 185 miles of tunnels and
only about a mile is open to the public
as a museum
the first tunnels date back to 60 BC
they were consistently dug as limestone
quarries and by the 18th century the
caving in of some of these queries posed
safety threats so the government ordered
reinforcing of the existing queries and
dug new observation tunnels in order to
monitor and map the whole place as you
can see the system is very complex and
fast it's very dangerous to get lost in
there and at the same time there was a
problem in the city with overflowing
cemeteries so the bones were moved from
the cemeteries into the queries making
them into the catacombs the remains of
over 6 million people are housed in
there
some over 1300 years old this was taken
under the Montparnasse Cemetery where
most of the ah series are located there
are also phone cables that were used in
the 50s and many bunkers from the world
war ii era this is a German bunker and
nearby there's a French bunker and the
whole tunnel system is so complex that
the two parties never meant the tunnels
are famous for having been used by the
resistance which Victor Hugo wrote about
in lemons Aragua and I saw a lot of
graffiti from the 1800s like this one
and after exploring the underground of
Paris I decided to climb up and I
climbed a gothic monument that's right
in the middle of Paris this is the tower
of Saint Jacques I was built in the
early 1500s I don't recommend sitting on
a gargoyle in the middle of January
naked it was not very comfortable and
all this time I never saw a single rat
in any of these places until recently I
was in the London sewers this was
probably the toughest place to explore I
had to wear a gas mask because of the
toxic fumes I guess except for in this
picture and when the tides of waste
matter come in it sounds as if a whole
storm is approaching you this is a still
from a film I worked on recently called
blind or I've become more interested in
capturing movement and texture and the
60 millimeter black-and-white film gave
a very different feel to it
and this is the first theater project I
worked on I adapted and produced a dream
play by August Strindberg and it was
performed last September one time only
in the Atlantic Avenue tunnel in
Brooklyn which is considered by some to
be the oldest underground train tunnel
in the world built in 1844 I've been
leaning towards more collaborative
projects like these lately but whenever
I get a chance I still work on my series
the last place I visited was the Mayan
ruins of copn in Honduras this was
taken inside an archaeological tunnel in
the main temple I like doing more than
just exploring these spaces I feel an
obligation to animate and humanize these
spaces continually in order to preserve
their memories in a creative way before
they're lost forever thank you
[Applause]
you